---
layout: post
title: Breadboards
date: 2014-08-28 04:15:06
categories: jekyll update
---
Breadboards are useful for rapid prototyping. By eliminating the need to solder or constantly twist wires every time there needs to be a change, breadboards allow developers to utilize plug-and-play so that wires and pins are inserted into metal rails. Breadboards usually have 2 sets of vertical rails in parallel that are used for input power and ground [indicated by + and - symbols]. Normally, breadboards have these sets on both sides of the board for ease of access from the prototyping portion of the board where the rest of the components will go. In between the power 2 sets of power/ground rails are the normal rails that run perpendicularly (horizontally). In the middle of these horizontal rails is a gap that separates the horizontal rail into two. The reason is two accomodate for integrated circuits (ICs) so that their pins don't cross, and to maximize the number of junction areas without limiting how many wires can be junctioned. When people talk about breadboards, they are normally referring to solderless breadboards. There are also solder breadboards that are essentially PCBs. The benefit of not using a solderless breadboard is that it ensures that the components are not going to fall off, making it more ideal for demonstrations. The only issue with breadboards is that a developer can't integrate SMDs as easily. In short, breadboards are for more for theory and proof of concept solutions. Once the design has been reviewed and is ready for production, that's when SMDs would replace the THT components.
