---
layout: post
title: Project 1
date: 2014-09-17 04:21:27
categories: jekyll update
---
The idea behind this first project is to create a simple LED garden. The concept is to embed a handful of LEDs with plants so that the LEDs are visible. As a person approaches the garden, the garden will light up and get progressively brighter the closer they get. By using a simple sonar shield, the system will be able to detect an object at up to 11 feet. Some additional features to this system will provide information to the gardener about the health of the plants by gathering data on temperature, light exposure, and moisture levels in the soil.

---------
Update 1:
---------
After peer review, I have decided to limit the features of the project as well as change the interaction of light. To make the project simpler, I will be removing the information about garden health. In regards to how the garden lights, instead of doing just simple lights, I will have the LEDs emulate the behavior as fireflys. The closer a person gets to the garden, more fireflys will "appear."


Materials List:
Soldering iron
Solder
Wire strippers 
22 AWG wire (two different colors)
5mm LEDs
Arduino
9v battery
9v connector
Electrical tape (or insulation and a lighter)
Plants
Planting Pot

Alternative to using live plants:
Foam
Fake plants
Material to cover foam such as dirt of fake moss

Since I'm using 12 LEDs and the fireflys require pulse width modulation (PWM) to control fade sequences, I'm going to need to use Charlieplexing (similar to multiplexing) in order to overcome the ratio of outputs to output sources. The basic principle behind charlieplexing LEDs is that the number of outputs increases exponentially to the number of pins that are used. In order to determine the maximum number of outputs are possible with a given number of pins, the total is equal to the square of the number of pins minus the number of pins (# LEDs = pins^2 - pins) where the minimum number of pins must be 2 in order to drive any LEDs. By utilizing the polarity of the LEDs, Charlieplexing makes it possible to control a single LED. By connecting 2 LEDs to the same wires [but with opposite polarity] the LEDs are lit by changing the positive and negative flow across the wires. With Arduino, this is accomplished by changing the state of the pins from HIGH to LOW, and vice versa. If there are more than 2 wires, any wire that isn't connected directly to the LED will be set to INPUT to treat it as a neutral line.
